So back in the project to add this server, we could create a totally new project because I will start
with this separated solution,
I will not serve the angular app through my node server simply because I want to keep on using this ngServe
command and this built-in development server the angular cli gives us,
so we'll use ngServe to serve the angular app,
we will build a totally separate backend for now. Therefore we could do this in a brand new folder in
a brand new project,
I'll do it in the same folder so that switching between the files is easier and easier to follow for
you,
I just want you to understand that all this node code is not actually related to our angular code, that
is why I'll also put it into a separate folder by the way.
I will add a brand new folder next to my source folder and I will name it backend, the name is totally
up to you.
Now for now, I won't add files,
we'll do this later,
what I want to do for now is create a single javascript file which will be our server because that's
important about nodejs
.
unlike for example PHP where you need a separate server software like Apache or Nginx, for nodejs
you create the server with nodejs too,
so you write all that on your own.
Therefore all create a new file and I'll actually do this on the root folder so that it's a bit easier
for us to execute
and that is the server.js file,
so this is sitting directly in the root folder of our application.
Now this server.js file can now be executed with nodejs,
now important, keep ngServe running but we don't need for now,
you could quit it but keep it running so that we have it available later and open a new terminal window.
Here in my IDE, I can do this with this plus, in this terminal window,
you can now execute that server.js file with the node command which you should have available since
you installed nodejs on your machine,
so you can run node server.js like this.
Now nothing will happen because it's an empty file
but what you can do is you can dump in a console log statement and say hello.
Now this is of course node server side code,
it's not listening to any requests
but we can actually execute any javascript file with node except for files that try to access something
in the dom because nodejs is a server side runtime,
there is no dom but this can be executed
and you'll see
hello here.
OK,
so this is how this works,
this is also how we will start our server later.
So for now, let's turn this into a server and to do this, we first of all need to import a package provided
by nodejs, the http package. Now in angular, you always import it like this, import something from somewhere.
Now this is not how we import in nodejs though, this syntax is not supported yet,
it will be supported in the future
but even then in a different form which isn't finalized yet, so we will use the default way of importing
in nodejs
and that looks like this.
You create a new variable or since node in the latest version which we are using already supports
ES6 plus, you create a constant because you don't plan on adding this, what we're going to add now
and that can be named however you want but I'll name it http because now I import with the require keyword
and then the package I want to import is the http package.
Now this is not a package we install,
it's not found in the package.json file because this is a default nodejs package which was installed
together with nodejs on your system.
Require is the nodejs import syntax and this simply imports this package and stores its content
in this http constant, this is how we import in nodejs.
With this imported,
we can use the http package to create a new server because the http package has a create server method here.
Now create server as you can see if you hover over it in visual studio code takes a request listener
as an argument,
so a function it will execute for every incoming request no matter which path this request targets, if
it's targeting your domain or your IP, then this function here will be executed.
I'll pass an ES6 arrow function here,
so that's a normal function just a bit more powerful than normal functions and this function will receive
two arguments which will be passed in by nodejs, the request and the response object, these offer data
and utility methods that allow us to work with requests and responses.
Now in here, we can do whatever we want with the request,
we can later for example parse it for the path that was targeted, though we will use express to help
us with that,
right now we're writing vanilla node code,
more interesting is the response. The response has a couple of methods
and one of them is the end method,
this can be used to end writing to the response stream because you can actually write more,
you can set headers there with set header and so on,
so this can all be done but here I will just end it and we can pass something too and like this is my
first response and then this will be sent as text.
Now with that, we create a server but it's not active yet,
we need to store that server in a new constant because we'll not change this value and thereafter we
can call server listen and to listen, we need to pass a port number.
Now this port during development will be 3000,
so we can just set it like this though what I typically want to do here is I want to use that port
or the default port of the hosting provider I'm hosting this at because that hosting provider will
normally give us that port number
we want to host our app at
during production.
So I will access environment variable with process.env.port, all capital case or use 3000
if that's not set. Now environment variables are dynamically injected variables, they're always accessed
on process.env,
that's a nodejs feature,
they can be injected by the runtime in which this app runs and if it's not set, we will use 3000,
so that is what will happen during development.
Now with that, if we now execute our nodejs file again by running node server.js, you see it doesn't
quit right, it stays here, it doesn't jump back to allowing us to enter new text because is this now an ongoing
process,
we're listening for requests,
if we now go to the browser, we can visit localhost 3000
and if we hit enter, we see if we zoom in, this my first response.
OK,
this is no English because I forgot the is but if I add it here and I reload,
that's a good example actually, if I reload,
nothing changes because that already is
well accidental but here important takeaway, if you change something on your server side code, you need
to quit running server with Control C and restart it, only then your code changes will take effect.
So now if I reload, we see this is my first response.
So this is our first very simple nodejs server,
this is how we add code and how we update
the code, we need to restart. Now
writing all the code just with nodejs would be very cumbersome though because for example, if you
want to find out if we targeted just our slash nothing path or if we had our domain.com/products,
then we would have to parse that manually on the incoming request.
The same is for the request body, the request http verb,
these are all things we don't want to do,
that is why we will add the express backend in the next lectures.